howdy there internet people let's bow
again and welcome to part three of our
Veterans Day special and where we are
outlining all of the times we've turned
veterans into combat veterans if you
haven't watch the first two parts go
ahead and go watch those first we are in
the early 1900s now I will tell you that
once we get to the Cold War I have
pretty much just given up on outlining
all of them so I just hit the ones that
that I wasn't confident people were
familiar with to put it bluntly us
destabilizing Iran didn't even make the
list
okay so early 1900s
the occupation in Nicaragua ran from
1912 to 1933 now we were there in 1909
at request of the regime in power but in
1912 US investments started becoming at
risk so we intervened a little bit more
heavily on the side of the right wing
that was involved in the factional
fighting there by 1927 a full-blown
Civil War had erupted and we stayed
until 1933 then you've got the bluff war
which ran in 1914 to 1915 this is a
native War II no OS still going on
Veracruz is 1914 we inserted ourselves
into the Mexican Revolution
under the flimsiest of pre Texas the
occupation of Haiti 1915 to 1934 the
people there took out a dictator that we
liked we were worried about German
influence because they had a lot of the
business so we took it over
occupation of the Dominican Republic
1916 to 1924 it was politically unstable
we were worried about German influence
so we took it over World War one
don't think I need to go over that one
here's one that I think is going to
surprise most people the Russian Civil
War 1918 to 1920 the u.s. deployed more
than 10,000 troops to invade Russia we
were there operating on the side of the
Czar and this is really the beginning of
the Cold War why would the Soviets not
like us because we fought them before
they even had control of the country if
you want to look up more on that look up
the polar bear expedition see the last
Indian uprising 1923
then we get to world war ii korean war
1952-53 allows in civil war 1953 to 1975
we interjected ourselves into that
lebanon 1958 we intervened by request on
this one and for once it worked out now
that one want pretty well the Bay of
Pigs in 1961 the u.s. sponsored Cuban
exiles trying to take out Castro the
Simba Revolution in 1964 this is
communist versus capitalist cold world
Masters of the Universe type stuff the
Vietnam War communist insurgency in
Thailand in 1965 to 1983 here's one for
you the second Korean War 1966 to 1969
so this is also known as the Korean DMZ
conflict it's often said well there's no
peace treaty about the Korean War mmm
that's kind of true there was an
armistice though there was an armistice
signed ended hostilities problem is it
had a clause about not introducing
nuclear weapons no new weapons could be
brought in the u.s. wanted to put nukes
there because it could reach China and
the Soviet Union and even though that
Clause was there we just violated it and
put the nukes there and that started a
low-level conflict that lasted a couple
years the dominicans civil war in 1965
to 1966 there was a coup we inserted
ourselves the Cambodian Civil War in
1967 1975 same communist versus
capitalist stuff the u.s. in that case
supported the the kingdom of Cambodia
and the kurma Republic
just in anybody but the cap communists
the war in southern Sai year 1978 more
communist versus capitalist tough a mind
got taken that's really why we got
involved 11 9 1982 to 84 that was a
multinational peacekeeping force it was
an utter failure at that time Grenada in
so Grenada had just become an
independent country and 79 and there was
a coup and then in 83 there was a coup
to take out the guy who took the last
guy out with a coup Reagan was worried
that medical students there would get
taken hostage wasn't actually worried
about them was worried about how it
would make him look because of the Iran
hostage crisis under Carter Libya 1986
there was a bombing as a reprisal - an
attack on a disco in West Berlin the
tanker wars 1987 to 88 Iraq provoked
Iraq attacked Iran and attempt to
provoke them into an overreaction and it
worked and worked in the US began
limiting Iranian oil tankers I got my
tan off the coast of Iran and all of
that
Panama 1989 to 90 there were a whole
bunch of reasons given for this drugs
Human Rights a whole bunch of stuff the
reality was they were worried that
Noriega would not be neutral when he
came to the canal so he had to go it was
about money
the first Gulf War
Somalia 92 to 95 Blackhawk down Bosnian
war 92 to 95 Haiti again 94 to 95 this
is a cool one you want to talk about
gunboat diplomacy our diplomat trying to
get the guy who staged a coup trying to
get him to step down literally just
showed him the video of US troops flying
it like we're already loaded up we're
gonna invade your country if you step
down you'll save a lot of lives any day
that actually went I mean as well as can
be expected
Kosovo 98 to 99 operation infinite reach
in 98 that was cruise missile attacks
targeting the organization responsible
for September 11th
this unmitigated failure
he had Afghanistan 2001 to present Iraq
2003 to present Pakistan 2004 to present
interestingly enough when this all gets
reframed in a history book it will
probably be Pakistan that becomes the
important one because that's the first
real drone war most of the operations
there we're drunk so it will have some
historical significance Somalia again
2007 to present mostly drones and
SpecOps raids ocean shield 2001 to 2016
that's the Indian Ocean
pirates again Libya 2011 to present
unmitigated failure Uganda 2011 to 2017
Syria 2006 to present we propagandized
the populace started a rebellion
destabilized the country primarily for
economic reasons and then we've got
Yemen 2015 to present where we have
light involvement and
in an advisory role so this is it this
is it this isn't even all of it I think
the best thing that we can do for
veterans today is to stop turning
veterans into combat veterans that might
be the best thing we can do and as extra
credit maybe go back through this list
and try to figure out how many years the
u.s. was at peace out of its entire
existence anyway it's just a thought
y'all have a good night